.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-138 7 "2026-06-17" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-138 \- Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special elements that could be interpreted as control elements or syntactic markers when they are sent to a downstream component. Most languages and protocols have their own special elements such as characters and reserved words. These special elements can carry control implications. If product does not prevent external control or influence over the inclusion of such special elements, the control flow of the program may be altered from what was intended. For example, both Unix and Windows interpret the symbol < (less than) as meaning read input from a file.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-17): \fB7\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2021\-25296, CVE\-2021\-25297, CVE\-2021\-25298, CVE\-2021\-27101, CVE\-2021\-35394, CVE\-2022\-26352, CVE\-2022\-27926.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/138.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-17 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-17.
