.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-639 7 "2026-06-17" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-639 \- Authorization Bypass Through User\-Controlled Key (IDOR)
.SH RANK
2025 CWE Top 25 rank: \fB#24\fR (2024 rank: 30).
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: Access Control.
.SH DESCRIPTION
A user\-supplied key (e.g. a record ID) looks up a resource without verifying the user is authorized for that specific object. Changing the identifier (an 'insecure direct object reference') exposes other users' data.
.SH MITIGATION
Tie object lookups to the authenticated principal: filter by owner, or verify ownership after lookup and deny otherwise. Unpredictable identifiers help but never replace an authorization check.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
No entries in the current CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-17) reference this weakness.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Node.js, Python, Java, Go, PHP).
.SS Node.js
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
const inv = await Invoice.findById(req.params.id);   // any id by URL edit
res.json(inv);
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
const inv = await Invoice.findOne({ _id: req.params.id, owner: req.user.id });
if (!inv) return res.sendStatus(404);   // scoped to the caller
res.json(inv);
.EE
.RE
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
inv = Invoice.get(request.args['id'])   # any id
return inv.json()
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
inv = Invoice.query.filter_by(id=request.args['id'],
                              owner_id=current_user.id).first_or_404()
return inv.json()
.EE
.RE
.SS Java
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
@GetMapping("/invoices/{id}")
public Invoice get(@PathVariable Long id) {           // any id
    return repo.findById(id).orElseThrow();
}
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
@GetMapping("/invoices/{id}")
public Invoice get(@PathVariable Long id, @AuthenticationPrincipal User me) {
    return repo.findByIdAndOwnerId(id, me.getId())    // scoped to caller
               .orElseThrow(() -> new AccessDeniedException("403"));
}
.EE
.RE
.SS Go
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
row := db.QueryRow("SELECT * FROM invoices WHERE id = ?", id(r))   // any id
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
row := db.QueryRow(
  "SELECT * FROM invoices WHERE id = ? AND owner_id = ?",
  id(r), currentUser(r).ID)   // scoped to caller
.EE
.RE
.SS PHP
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
$inv = $db->query("SELECT * FROM invoices WHERE id = " . (int)$_GET['id']);
echo json_encode($inv->fetch());   // any id
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
$stmt = $db->prepare(
  "SELECT * FROM invoices WHERE id = ? AND owner_id = ?");
$stmt->execute([$_GET['id'], $_SESSION['user']['id']]);   // scoped to caller
echo json_encode($stmt->fetch());
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index), CWE\-862, CWE\-863, OWASP A01:2021 Broken Access Control.
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/639.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-17 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-17.
