.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-693 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-693 \- Protection Mechanism Failure
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product does not use or incorrectly uses a protection mechanism that provides sufficient defense against directed attacks against the product. This weakness covers three distinct situations. A missing protection mechanism occurs when the application does not define any mechanism against a certain class of attack. An insufficient protection mechanism might provide some defenses \- for example, against the most common attacks \- but it does not protect against everything that is intended. Finally, an ignored mechanism occurs when a mechanism is available and in active use within the product, but the developer has not applied it in some code path.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB10\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2024\-21412, CVE\-2024\-29988, CVE\-2024\-38213, CVE\-2024\-38217, CVE\-2024\-38226, CVE\-2025\-0411, CVE\-2025\-40536, CVE\-2026\-21510, CVE\-2026\-21513, CVE\-2026\-32202.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/693.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
