.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-506 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-506 \- Embedded Malicious Code
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product contains code that appears to be malicious in nature. Malicious flaws have acquired colorful names, including Trojan horse, trapdoor, timebomb, and logic\-bomb. A developer might insert malicious code with the intent to subvert the security of a product or its host system at some time in the future. It generally refers to a program that performs a useful service but exploits rights of the program's user in a way the user does not intend.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB8\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2024\-4978, CVE\-2025\-30066, CVE\-2025\-30154, CVE\-2025\-54313, CVE\-2025\-59374, CVE\-2026\-8398, CVE\-2026\-33634, CVE\-2026\-48027.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/506.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
