.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-426 7 "2026-06-22" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-426 \- Untrusted Search Path
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product searches for critical resources using an externally\-supplied search path that can point to resources that are not under the product's direct control. This might allow attackers to execute their own programs, access unauthorized data files, or modify configuration in unexpected ways. If the product uses a search path to locate critical resources such as programs, then an attacker could modify that search path to point to a malicious program, which the targeted product would then execute. The problem extends to any type of critical resource that the product trusts. Some of the most common variants of untrusted search path are: In various UNIX and Linux\-based systems, the PATH environment variable may be consulted to locate executable programs, and LD_PRELOAD may be used to locate a separate library. In various Microsoft\-based systems, the PATH environment variable is consulted to locate a DLL, if the DLL is not found in other paths that appear earlier in the search order.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-22): \fB2\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2012\-1854, CVE\-2022\-22047.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Python).
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
subprocess.run("convert in.png out.png", shell=True)  # PATH-dependent binary
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
subprocess.run(["/usr/bin/convert", "in.png", "out.png"])  # absolute, no shell
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/426.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-22 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-22.
