.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-406 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-406 \- Insufficient Control of Network Message Volume (Network Amplification)
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product does not sufficiently monitor or control transmitted network traffic volume, so that an actor can cause the product to transmit more traffic than should be allowed for that actor. In the absence of a policy to restrict asymmetric resource consumption, the application or system cannot distinguish between legitimate transmissions and traffic intended to serve as an amplifying attack on target systems. Systems can often be configured to restrict the amount of traffic sent out on behalf of a client, based on the client's origin or access level. This is usually defined in a resource allocation policy. In the absence of a mechanism to keep track of transmissions, the system or application can be easily abused to transmit asymmetrically greater traffic than the request or client should be permitted to.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-16): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2022\-26143.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/406.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
