.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-98 7 "2026-06-17" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-98 \- Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote File Inclusion')
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The PHP application receives input from an upstream component, but it does not restrict or incorrectly restricts the input before its usage in require, include, or similar functions. In certain versions and configurations of PHP, this can allow an attacker to specify a URL to a remote location from which the product will obtain the code to execute. In other cases in association with path traversal, the attacker can specify a local file that may contain executable statements that can be parsed by PHP.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-17): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2025\-68645.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/98.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-17 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-17.
