.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-352 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-352 \- Cross\-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
.SH RANK
2025 CWE Top 25 rank: \fB#3\fR (2024 rank: 4).
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: Web / Session.
.SH DESCRIPTION
A state\-changing request is accepted without proof the user intended it. Because browsers attach cookies automatically, a malicious page can make a logged\-in victim's browser submit a forged request the server cannot distinguish from a legitimate one.
.SH MITIGATION
Require an unpredictable per\-session anti\-CSRF token on every state\-changing request and reject it if missing/wrong. Set session cookies SameSite=Lax or Strict, and re\-authenticate for the most sensitive actions.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB4\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2014\-100005, CVE\-2016\-6277, CVE\-2020\-10181, CVE\-2023\-2533.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Node.js, Python, Java, Go, PHP).
.SS Node.js
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
app.post('/transfer', (req, res) => {        // trusts the session cookie only
  transfer(req.session.user, req.body.to, req.body.amount);
  res.send('ok');
});
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
app.post('/transfer', (req, res) => {
  if (!req.body.csrf || req.body.csrf !== req.session.csrf)
    return res.sendStatus(403);              // anti-CSRF token required
  transfer(req.session.user, req.body.to, req.body.amount);
  res.send('ok');
});
// session cookie: { sameSite: 'lax' }
.EE
.RE
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
@app.post('/transfer')
def transfer():                              # no token check
    do_transfer(session['user'], request.form['to'], request.form['amount'])
    return 'ok'
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
@app.post('/transfer')
def transfer():
    if not hmac.compare_digest(session.get('csrf',''), request.form.get('csrf','')):
        abort(403)                           # anti-CSRF token required
    do_transfer(session['user'], request.form['to'], request.form['amount'])
    return 'ok'
# app.config['SESSION_COOKIE_SAMESITE'] = 'Lax'
.EE
.RE
.SS Java
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
// Spring Security
http.csrf(csrf -> csrf.disable());           // protection switched off
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
// Spring Security enables CSRF tokens by default; keep it on
http.csrf(Customizer.withDefaults());
// and use SameSite cookies: server.servlet.session.cookie.same-site=lax
.EE
.RE
.SS Go
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
http.HandleFunc("/transfer", func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    doTransfer(user(r), r.FormValue("to"), r.FormValue("amount"))   // no token
})
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
import "github.com/gorilla/csrf"
// Wrap the mux; the middleware validates a per-session token on unsafe methods
mux := csrf.Protect(key, csrf.SameSite(csrf.SameSiteLaxMode))(router)
// templates embed {{ .csrfField }} which the middleware checks
.EE
.RE
.SS PHP
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
// transfer.php
do_transfer($_SESSION['user'], $_POST['to'], $_POST['amount']);   // no token
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
if (!hash_equals($_SESSION['csrf'] ?? '', $_POST['csrf'] ?? '')) {
    http_response_code(403); exit;           // anti-CSRF token required
}
do_transfer($_SESSION['user'], $_POST['to'], $_POST['amount']);
// session_set_cookie_params(['samesite' => 'Lax']);
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index), CWE\-1275, CWE\-306, OWASP A01:2021 Broken Access Control.
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/352.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
