.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-732 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-732 \- Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product specifies permissions for a security\-critical resource in a way that allows that resource to be read or modified by unintended actors. When a resource is given a permission setting that provides access to a wider range of actors than required, it could lead to the exposure of sensitive information, or the modification of that resource by unintended parties. This is especially dangerous when the resource is related to program configuration, execution, or sensitive user data. For example, consider a misconfigured storage account for the cloud that can be read or written by a public or anonymous user.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB2\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2018\-13374, CVE\-2019\-15752.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Python).
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
os.chmod(secret, 0o777)            # world-readable/writable
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
os.chmod(secret, 0o600)            # owner only
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/732.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
