.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-667 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-667 \- Improper Locking
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product does not properly acquire or release a lock on a resource, leading to unexpected resource state changes and behaviors. Locking is a type of synchronization behavior that ensures that multiple independently\-operating processes or threads do not interfere with each other when accessing the same resource. All processes/threads are expected to follow the same steps for locking. If these steps are not followed precisely \- or if no locking is done at all \- then another process/thread could modify the shared resource in a way that is not visible or predictable to the original process. This can lead to data or memory corruption, denial of service, etc.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB2\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2021\-1782, CVE\-2025\-43510.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/667.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
