.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-388 7 "2026-06-22" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-388 \- 7PK \- Errors
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This category represents one of the phyla in the Seven Pernicious Kingdoms vulnerability classification. It includes weaknesses that occur when an application does not properly handle errors that occur during processing. According to the authors of the Seven Pernicious Kingdoms, "Errors and error handling represent a class of API. Errors related to error handling are so common that they deserve a special kingdom of their own. As with 'API Abuse,' there are two ways to introduce an error\-related security vulnerability: the most common one is handling errors poorly (or not at all). The second is producing errors that either give out too much information (to possible attackers) or are difficult to handle."
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-22): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2018\-0155.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/388.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-22 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-22.
