.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-532 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-532 \- Insertion of Sensitive Information into Log File
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Information written to log files can be of a sensitive nature and give valuable guidance to an attacker or expose sensitive user information. While logging all information may be helpful during development stages, it is important that logging levels be set appropriately before a product ships so that sensitive user data and system information are not accidentally exposed to potential attackers. Different log files may be produced and stored for: Server log files (e.g. server.log). This can give information on whatever application left the file. Usually this can give full path names and system information, and sometimes usernames and passwords. log files that are used for debugging
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-16): \fB2\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2023\-21492, CVE\-2025\-24984.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/532.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
