.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-295 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-295 \- Improper Certificate Validation
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product does not validate, or incorrectly validates, a certificate. When a certificate is invalid or malicious, it might allow an attacker to spoof a trusted entity by interfering in the communication path between the host and client. The product might connect to a malicious host while believing it is a trusted host, or the product might be deceived into accepting spoofed data that appears to originate from a trusted host.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB4\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2020\-0601, CVE\-2022\-26923, CVE\-2023\-20963, CVE\-2023\-41991.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Python).
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
import requests
requests.get(url, verify=False)     # disables TLS certificate validation
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
import requests
requests.get(url)                   # verify=True by default; validates chain
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/295.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
