.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-259 7 "2026-06-22" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-259 \- Use of Hard\-coded Password
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product contains a hard\-coded password, which it uses for its own inbound authentication or for outbound communication to external components. A hard\-coded password typically leads to a significant authentication failure that can be difficult for the system administrator to detect. Once detected, it can be difficult to fix, so the administrator may be forced into disabling the product entirely. There are two main variations: Inbound: the product contains an authentication mechanism that checks for a hard\-coded password. Outbound: the product connects to another system or component, and it contains hard\-coded password for connecting to that component. In the Inbound variant, a default administration account is created, and a simple password is hard\-coded into the product and associated with that account. This hard\-coded password is the same for each installation of the product, and it usually cannot be changed or disabled by system administrators without manually modifying the program, or otherwise patching the product. If the password is ever discovered or published (a common occurrence on the Internet), then anybody with knowledge of this password can access the product. Finally, since all installations of the product will have the same password, even across different organizations, this enables massive attacks such as worms to take place. The Outbound variant applies to front\-end systems that authenticate with a back\-end service. The back\-end service may require a fixed password which can be easily discovered. The programmer may simply hard\-code those back\-end credentials into the front\-end product. Any user of that program may be able to extract the password. Client\-side systems with hard\-coded passwords pose even more of a threat, since the extraction of a password from a binary is usually very simple.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-22): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2022\-28810.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/259.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-22 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-22.
