.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-770 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-770 \- Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling
.SH RANK
2025 CWE Top 25 rank: \fB#25\fR (2024 rank: 26).
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: Resource Management / Availability.
.SH DESCRIPTION
A reusable resource (memory, file handles, threads, connections, CPU) is allocated for an actor without limits or throttling. An attacker triggers excessive allocation to exhaust the resource and deny service.
.SH MITIGATION
Impose explicit limits: maximum request/body size, per\-client rate limiting, quotas, timeouts, and capped pools with back\-pressure. Reject work that exceeds limits early rather than allocating first.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
No entries in the current CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15) reference this weakness.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Node.js, Python, Java, Go, PHP).
.SS Node.js
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
app.post('/render', (req, res) => {   // no size/rate limit
  let body = '';
  req.on('data', c => body += c);     // unbounded buffering
  req.on('end', () => res.send(heavyRender(body)));
});
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
app.use(express.text({ limit: '1mb' }));            // body cap
app.post('/render', rateLimit({ max: 10, windowMs: 60000 }), (req, res) => {
  res.send(heavyRender(req.body));
});
.EE
.RE
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
@app.post('/render')
def render():
    data = request.get_data()   # no size/rate limit
    return heavy_render(data)
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
app.config['MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH'] = 1 * 1024 * 1024   # 1 MiB cap
@app.post('/render')
@limiter.limit('10/minute')                           # per-client throttle
def render():
    return heavy_render(request.get_data())
.EE
.RE
.SS Java
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
@PostMapping("/render")
public String render(@RequestBody String body) {   // no size/rate limit
    return heavyRender(body);
}
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
// application.properties: spring.servlet.multipart.max-request-size=1MB
@PostMapping("/render")
@RateLimiter(name = "render")   // resilience4j per-client throttle
public String render(@RequestBody @Size(max = 1_000_000) String body) {
    return heavyRender(body);
}
.EE
.RE
.SS Go
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
func render(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    body, _ := io.ReadAll(r.Body)   // unbounded read
    w.Write(heavyRender(body))
}
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
func render(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    r.Body = http.MaxBytesReader(w, r.Body, 1<<20)   // 1 MiB cap
    body, err := io.ReadAll(r.Body)
    if err != nil { http.Error(w, "too large", 413); return }
    w.Write(heavyRender(body))   // plus a rate-limiting middleware + timeouts
}
.EE
.RE
.SS PHP
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
$data = file_get_contents('php://input');   // bounded only by memory_limit
echo heavy_render($data);
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
// php.ini: post_max_size = 1M ; and rate-limit at the web server / WAF.
$len = (int)($_SERVER['CONTENT_LENGTH'] ?? 0);
if ($len > 1048576) { http_response_code(413); exit; }
$data = file_get_contents('php://input');
echo heavy_render($data);
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index), CWE\-400, CWE\-789, CWE\-307.
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/770.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
