.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-95 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-95 \- Improper Neutralization of Directives in Dynamically Evaluated Code ('Eval Injection')
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes code syntax before using the input in a dynamic evaluation call (e.g. eval). This may allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code, or at least modify what code can be executed.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB6\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2021\-22204, CVE\-2021\-22205, CVE\-2023\-7101, CVE\-2024\-36401, CVE\-2025\-24893, CVE\-2026\-33017.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Python).
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
result = eval(user_expr)               # arbitrary code execution
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
import ast
result = ast.literal_eval(user_expr)   # data literals only
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/95.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
