.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-1188 7 "2026-06-17" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-1188 \- Initialization of a Resource with an Insecure Default
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product initializes or sets a resource with a default that is intended to be changed by the administrator, but the default is not secure. Developers often choose default values that leave the product as open and easy to use as possible out\-of\-the\-box, under the assumption that the administrator can (or should) change the default value. However, this ease\-of\-use comes at a cost when the default is insecure and the administrator does not change it.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-17): \fB5\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2020\-13927, CVE\-2022\-24706, CVE\-2023\-6448, CVE\-2023\-27524, CVE\-2025\-48927.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1188.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-17 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-17.
