.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-611 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-611 \- Improper Restriction of XML External Entity Reference
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product processes an XML document that can contain XML entities with URIs that resolve to documents outside of the intended sphere of control, causing the product to embed incorrect documents into its output. XML documents optionally contain a Document Type Definition (DTD), which, among other features, enables the definition of XML entities. It is possible to define an entity by providing a substitution string in the form of a URI. The XML parser can access the contents of this URI and embed these contents back into the XML document for further processing. By submitting an XML file that defines an external entity with a file:// URI, an attacker can cause the processing application to read the contents of a local file. For example, a URI such as file:///c:/winnt/win.ini designates (in Windows) the file C:Winntwin.ini, or file:///etc/passwd designates the password file in Unix\-based systems. Using URIs with other schemes such as http://, the attacker can force the application to make outgoing requests to servers that the attacker cannot reach directly, which can be used to bypass firewall restrictions or hide the source of attacks such as port scanning. Once the content of the URI is read, it is fed back into the application that is processing the XML. This application may echo back the data (e.g. in an error message), thereby exposing the file contents.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB8\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2016\-9563, CVE\-2019\-9670, CVE\-2019\-13608, CVE\-2023\-45727, CVE\-2024\-34102, CVE\-2025\-2775, CVE\-2025\-2776, CVE\-2025\-58360.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Java).
.SS Java
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
DocumentBuilderFactory f = DocumentBuilderFactory.newInstance();
f.newDocumentBuilder().parse(input);   // external entities enabled -> XXE
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
DocumentBuilderFactory f = DocumentBuilderFactory.newInstance();
f.setFeature("http://apache.org/xml/features/disallow-doctype-decl", true);
f.newDocumentBuilder().parse(input);
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/611.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
