.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-178 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-178 \- Improper Handling of Case Sensitivity
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product does not properly account for differences in case sensitivity when accessing or determining the properties of a resource, leading to inconsistent results. Improperly handled case sensitive data can lead to several possible consequences, including: case\-insensitive passwords reducing the size of the key space, making brute force attacks easier bypassing filters or access controls using alternate names multiple interpretation errors using alternate names.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2020\-12812.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/178.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
