.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-427 7 "2026-06-22" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-427 \- Uncontrolled Search Path Element
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product uses a fixed or controlled search path to find resources, but one or more locations in that path can be under the control of unintended actors. Although this weakness can occur with any type of resource, it is frequently introduced when a product uses a directory search path to find executables or code libraries, but the path contains a directory that can be modified by an attacker, such as /tmp or the current working directory. In Windows\-based systems, when the LoadLibrary or LoadLibraryEx function is called with a DLL name that does not contain a fully qualified path, the function follows a search order that includes two path elements that might be uncontrolled: the directory from which the program has been loaded the current working directory In some cases, the attack can be conducted remotely, such as when SMB or WebDAV network shares are used. One or more locations in that path could include the Windows drive root or its subdirectories. This often exists in Linux\-based code assuming the controlled nature of the root directory (/) or its subdirectories (/etc, etc), or a code that recursively accesses the parent directory. In Windows, the drive root and some of its subdirectories have weak permissions by default, which makes them uncontrolled. In some Unix\-based systems, a PATH might be created that contains an empty element, e.g. by splicing an empty variable into the PATH. This empty element can be interpreted as equivalent to the current working directory, which might be an untrusted search element. In software package management frameworks (e.g., npm, RubyGems, or PyPi), the framework may identify dependencies on third\-party libraries or other packages, then consult a repository that contains the desired package. The framework may search a public repository before a private repository. This could be exploited by attackers by placing a malicious package in the public repository that has the same name as a package from the private repository. The search path might not be directly under control of the developer relying on the framework, but this search order effectively contains an untrusted element.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-22): \fB2\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2020\-3153, CVE\-2020\-3433.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/427.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-22 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-22.
