.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-434 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-434 \- Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type
.SH RANK
2025 CWE Top 25 rank: \fB#12\fR (2024 rank: 10).
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: Web / File Handling.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Uploads are accepted without adequately restricting the type or how the file is handled. An attacker uploads executable content (e.g. a web shell) into a location the server executes, achieving remote code execution.
.SH MITIGATION
Validate by content (not just extension); allow\-list permitted types; generate a server\-side random filename; store uploads outside the web root or where scripts never execute; serve with a safe Content\-Type/Content\-Disposition.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-16): \fB20\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2017\-12615, CVE\-2017\-12617, CVE\-2018\-4063, CVE\-2018\-15961, CVE\-2019\-8394, CVE\-2020\-8260, CVE\-2020\-13671, CVE\-2020\-25213, CVE\-2021\-20022, CVE\-2021\-26828, CVE\-2021\-27860, CVE\-2021\-31207, CVE\-2024\-7399, CVE\-2024\-7694, CVE\-2024\-39717, CVE\-2024\-50623, CVE\-2024\-57968, CVE\-2025\-2749, CVE\-2025\-31324, CVE\-2025\-52691.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Node.js, Python, Java, Go, PHP).
.SS Node.js
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
// multer with original name under the web root
const dest = '/var/www/html/uploads/' + req.file.originalname;   // shell.js
fs.renameSync(req.file.path, dest);
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
import { fileTypeFromFile } from 'file-type';
const ALLOW = { 'image/png': 'png', 'image/jpeg': 'jpg' };
const t = await fileTypeFromFile(req.file.path);
if (!t || !ALLOW[t.mime]) return res.sendStatus(415);
const name = crypto.randomUUID() + '.' + ALLOW[t.mime];
fs.renameSync(req.file.path, '/srv/uploads/' + name);   // outside web root
.EE
.RE
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
# Flask
file.save(os.path.join('/var/www/html/uploads', file.filename))   # shell.py
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
import imghdr, uuid
kind = imghdr.what(file.stream)            # validate by content
if kind not in ('png', 'jpeg'):
    abort(415)
name = f"{uuid.uuid4()}.{kind}"
file.save(os.path.join('/srv/uploads', name))   # outside web root
.EE
.RE
.SS Java
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
// Spring
file.transferTo(new File("/var/www/html/" + file.getOriginalFilename()));
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
String mime = new Tika().detect(file.getInputStream());   // validate content
Map<String,String> allow = Map.of("image/png","png","image/jpeg","jpg");
if (!allow.containsKey(mime)) throw new ResponseStatusException(UNSUPPORTED_MEDIA_TYPE);
String name = UUID.randomUUID() + "." + allow.get(mime);
file.transferTo(Path.of("/srv/uploads", name));   // outside web root
.EE
.RE
.SS Go
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
dst, _ := os.Create("/var/www/html/uploads/" + header.Filename)   // shell
io.Copy(dst, file)
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
buf := make([]byte, 512)
n, _ := file.Read(buf)
mime := http.DetectContentType(buf[:n])   // validate by content
ext, ok := map[string]string{"image/png": "png", "image/jpeg": "jpg"}[mime]
if !ok { http.Error(w, "type", 415); return }
file.Seek(0, io.SeekStart)
dst, _ := os.Create("/srv/uploads/" + uuid.NewString() + "." + ext)  // outside root
io.Copy(dst, file)
.EE
.RE
.SS PHP
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
$dest = '/var/www/html/uploads/' . $_FILES['f']['name'];   // shell.php
move_uploaded_file($_FILES['f']['tmp_name'], $dest);
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
$allow = ['image/png' => 'png', 'image/jpeg' => 'jpg'];
$mime = (new finfo(FILEINFO_MIME_TYPE))->file($_FILES['f']['tmp_name']);
if (!isset($allow[$mime])) { http_response_code(415); exit; }
$name = bin2hex(random_bytes(16)) . '.' . $allow[$mime];
move_uploaded_file($_FILES['f']['tmp_name'], '/srv/uploads/' . $name); // outside root
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index), CWE\-94, CWE\-79, OWASP A04:2021 Insecure Design.
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/434.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
