.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-601 7 "2026-06-17" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-601 \- URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect')
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
A web application accepts a user\-controlled input that specifies a link to an external site, and uses that link in a Redirect. This simplifies phishing attacks. An http parameter may contain a URL value and could cause the web application to redirect the request to the specified URL. By modifying the URL value to a malicious site, an attacker may successfully launch a phishing scam and steal user credentials. Because the server name in the modified link is identical to the original site, phishing attempts have a more trustworthy appearance. Whether this issue poses a vulnerability will be subject to the intended behavior of the application. For example, a search engine might intentionally provide redirects to arbitrary URLs.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-17): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2012\-0518.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Node.js).
.SS Node.js
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
app.get('/go', (req, res) => res.redirect(req.query.url));   // open redirect
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
const allow = new Set(['/home', '/help']);
app.get('/go', (req, res) =>
  res.redirect(allow.has(req.query.url) ? req.query.url : '/home'));
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/601.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-17 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-17.
