.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-1386 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-1386 \- Insecure Operation on Windows Junction / Mount Point
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product opens a file or directory, but it does not properly prevent the name from being associated with a junction or mount point to a destination that is outside of the intended control sphere. Depending on the intended action being performed, this could allow an attacker to cause the product to read, write, delete, or otherwise operate on unauthorized files. In Windows, NTFS5 allows for file system objects called reparse points. Applications can create a hard link from one directory to another directory, called a junction point. They can also create a mapping from a directory to a drive letter, called a mount point. If a file is used by a privileged program, but it can be replaced with a hard link to a sensitive file (e.g., AUTOEXEC.BAT), an attacker could excalate privileges. When the process opens the file, the attacker can assume the privileges of that process, tricking the privileged process to read, modify, or delete the sensitive file, preventing the program from accurately processing data. Note that one can also point to registries and semaphores.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB3\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2021\-41379, CVE\-2022\-21919, CVE\-2022\-21999.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1386.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
