.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-120 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-120 \- Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input (Classic Buffer Overflow)
.SH RANK
2025 CWE Top 25 rank: \fB#11\fR (2024 rank: NEW).
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: Memory Safety.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Data is copied into a fixed\-size buffer without verifying it fits; the excess overwrites adjacent memory. The classic root of decades of remote code execution. A C/C++ class.
.SH MITIGATION
Use size\-bounded copies (snprintf, strlcpy, memcpy with a validated length) and always pass the destination capacity. In C++ prefer std::string. Enable compiler hardening and fuzz parsers.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-16): \fB12\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2004\-0210, CVE\-2006\-2492, CVE\-2013\-0641, CVE\-2019\-11043, CVE\-2020\-5135, CVE\-2020\-15069, CVE\-2022\-37055, CVE\-2023\-33009, CVE\-2023\-33010, CVE\-2023\-41064, CVE\-2025\-20333, CVE\-2025\-43520.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (C, C++).
.SS C
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
char msg[32];
sprintf(msg, "Welcome, %s!", user);   /* overflows if user is long */
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
char msg[32];
snprintf(msg, sizeof msg, "Welcome, %s!", user);   /* bounded */
.EE
.RE
.SS C++
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
char msg[32];
std::sprintf(msg, "Welcome, %s!", user.c_str());   // unbounded
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
std::string msg = "Welcome, " + user + "!";        // grows as needed
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index), CWE\-121, CWE\-122, CWE\-787.
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/120.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
