.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-190 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-190 \- Integer Overflow or Wraparound
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product performs a calculation that can produce an integer overflow or wraparound, when the logic assumes that the resulting value will always be larger than the original value. This can introduce other weaknesses when the calculation is used for resource management or execution control. An integer overflow or wraparound occurs when an integer value is incremented to a value that is too large to store in the associated representation. When this occurs, the value may wrap to become a very small or negative number. While this may be intended behavior in circumstances that rely on wrapping, it can have security consequences if the wrap is unexpected. This is especially the case if the integer overflow can be triggered using user\-supplied inputs. This becomes security\-critical when the result is used to control looping, make a security decision, or determine the offset or size in behaviors such as memory allocation, copying, concatenation, etc.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB16\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2016\-1010, CVE\-2018\-6065, CVE\-2018\-14634, CVE\-2021\-30663, CVE\-2021\-30860, CVE\-2021\-30952, CVE\-2022\-0185, CVE\-2023\-2136, CVE\-2023\-6345, CVE\-2023\-21823, CVE\-2023\-32434, CVE\-2023\-33107, CVE\-2024\-38080, CVE\-2025\-24985, CVE\-2025\-48595, CVE\-2026\-21385.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (C).
.SS C
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
int len = a + b;             /* may overflow and wrap negative/small */
char *p = malloc(len);       /* under-allocates */
memcpy(p, src, a + b);       /* heap overflow */
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
if (b > 0 && a > SIZE_MAX - b) return -1;  /* detect wrap first */
size_t len = (size_t)a + b;
char *p = malloc(len);
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/190.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
