.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-284 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-284 \- Improper Access Control
.SH RANK
2025 CWE Top 25 rank: \fB#19\fR (2024 rank: NEW).
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: Access Control.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Access to a resource is not restricted, or is incorrectly restricted, from an unauthorized actor. The broad parent of missing/incorrect authorization, weak permission models, and unprotected resources.
.SH MITIGATION
Enforce access control at the server for every resource and entry point, default to deny, and rely on a centralised, well\-tested authorization layer rather than UI restrictions or obscurity. Apply least privilege.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-16): \fB31\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2014\-3120, CVE\-2015\-1427, CVE\-2016\-3393, CVE\-2016\-3715, CVE\-2016\-4437, CVE\-2016\-7256, CVE\-2016\-8735, CVE\-2019\-1653, CVE\-2020\-2506, CVE\-2020\-8193, CVE\-2020\-8196, CVE\-2021\-22941, CVE\-2021\-23874, CVE\-2022\-23134, CVE\-2023\-7028, CVE\-2023\-23752, CVE\-2023\-24489, CVE\-2023\-26360, CVE\-2023\-27350, CVE\-2023\-29298, CVE\-2023\-38205, CVE\-2024\-20767, CVE\-2024\-27348, CVE\-2024\-40766, CVE\-2024\-45519, CVE\-2025\-12480, CVE\-2025\-24989, CVE\-2025\-31125, CVE\-2025\-33073, CVE\-2025\-59230, CVE\-2026\-35616.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Node.js, Python, Java, Go, PHP).
.SS Node.js
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
// /reports route is only linked from the admin UI, but nothing guards it
app.get('/reports/:name', (req, res) =>
  res.sendFile('/reports/' + req.params.name));   // reachable by anyone
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
app.get('/reports/:name', requireAuth, (req, res) => {
  if (!canRead(req.user, req.params.name)) return res.sendStatus(403);
  res.sendFile(safePath('/reports', req.params.name));
});
.EE
.RE
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
@app.get('/reports/<name>')
def report(name):                       # no guard; relies on UI not linking it
    return send_from_directory('/reports', name)
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
@app.get('/reports/<name>')
@login_required
def report(name):
    if not can_read(current_user, name):
        abort(403)
    return send_from_directory('/reports', name)
.EE
.RE
.SS Java
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse resp) {
    serveFile("/reports/" + req.getParameter("name"), resp);   // unguarded
}
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse resp) {
    if (!authz.canRead(currentUser(req), req.getParameter("name"))) {
        resp.sendError(403); return;
    }
    serveFile(safePath(req.getParameter("name")), resp);
}
.EE
.RE
.SS Go
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
http.HandleFunc("/reports/", func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    http.ServeFile(w, r, "/reports/"+r.URL.Query().Get("name"))   // unguarded
})
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
http.HandleFunc("/reports/", func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    if !canRead(currentUser(r), r.URL.Query().Get("name")) {
        http.Error(w, "forbidden", 403); return
    }
    http.ServeFile(w, r, safePath("/reports", r.URL.Query().Get("name")))
})
.EE
.RE
.SS PHP
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
// report.php - no guard
readfile('/reports/' . basename($_GET['name']));
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
if (!can_read($_SESSION['user'] ?? null, $_GET['name'])) {
    http_response_code(403); exit;
}
readfile('/reports/' . basename($_GET['name']));
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index), CWE\-862, CWE\-863, OWASP A01:2021 Broken Access Control.
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/284.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
