.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-918 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-918 \- Server\-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
.SH RANK
2025 CWE Top 25 rank: \fB#22\fR (2024 rank: 19).
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: Web / Injection.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The server fetches a URL supplied or influenced by the user without validating the destination, so an attacker coerces requests to internal services, link\-local cloud metadata endpoints, or arbitrary hosts \- bypassing network controls and exposing internal data.
.SH MITIGATION
Allow\-list permitted hosts/schemes; resolve the hostname and reject private, loopback and link\-local ranges; disable redirects to disallowed targets; and isolate outbound requests from internal/metadata services.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB17\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2019\-9621, CVE\-2020\-7796, CVE\-2021\-21311, CVE\-2021\-21973, CVE\-2021\-21975, CVE\-2021\-21985, CVE\-2021\-22054, CVE\-2021\-22175, CVE\-2021\-26855, CVE\-2021\-27103, CVE\-2021\-34473, CVE\-2021\-39935, CVE\-2021\-40438, CVE\-2022\-41040, CVE\-2023\-41763, CVE\-2024\-21893, CVE\-2025\-61884.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Node.js, Python, Java, Go, PHP).
.SS Node.js
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
const r = await fetch(req.query.url);   // http://169.254.169.254/... reachable
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
const ALLOWED = new Set(['api.partner.example']);
const u = new URL(req.query.url);
if (!ALLOWED.has(u.hostname)) return res.sendStatus(400);
const { address } = await dns.promises.lookup(u.hostname);
if (isPrivateIp(address)) return res.sendStatus(400);
const r = await fetch(u, { redirect: 'manual' });
.EE
.RE
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
return requests.get(url).text   # url may target internal/metadata services
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
import ipaddress, socket
ALLOWED = {'api.partner.example'}
host = requests.utils.urlparse(url).hostname
if host not in ALLOWED: raise ValueError('host not allowed')
ip = ipaddress.ip_address(socket.gethostbyname(host))
if ip.is_private or ip.is_loopback or ip.is_link_local:
    raise ValueError('internal address blocked')
return requests.get(url, allow_redirects=False, timeout=5).text
.EE
.RE
.SS Java
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
InputStream in = new URL(url).openStream();   // internal targets reachable
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
URI u = URI.create(url);
if (!Set.of("api.partner.example").contains(u.getHost()))
    throw new SecurityException("host not allowed");
InetAddress ip = InetAddress.getByName(u.getHost());
if (ip.isSiteLocalAddress() || ip.isLoopbackAddress() || ip.isLinkLocalAddress())
    throw new SecurityException("internal address blocked");
HttpClient.newBuilder().followRedirects(Redirect.NEVER).build()
          .send(HttpRequest.newBuilder(u).build(), BodyHandlers.ofString());
.EE
.RE
.SS Go
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
resp, _ := http.Get(url)   // internal targets reachable
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
u, _ := neturl.Parse(url)
if u.Hostname() != "api.partner.example" {
    http.Error(w, "host not allowed", 400); return
}
ips, _ := net.LookupIP(u.Hostname())
for _, ip := range ips {
    if ip.IsPrivate() || ip.IsLoopback() || ip.IsLinkLocalUnicast() {
        http.Error(w, "internal blocked", 400); return
    }
}
client := &http.Client{CheckRedirect: func(*http.Request, []*http.Request) error {
    return http.ErrUseLastResponse }}
resp, _ := client.Get(u.String())
.EE
.RE
.SS PHP
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
echo file_get_contents($_GET['url']);   // internal targets reachable
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
$host = parse_url($_GET['url'], PHP_URL_HOST);
if ($host !== 'api.partner.example') { http_response_code(400); exit; }
$ip = gethostbyname($host);
if (!filter_var($ip, FILTER_VALIDATE_IP,
        FILTER_FLAG_NO_PRIV_RANGE | FILTER_FLAG_NO_RES_RANGE)) {
    http_response_code(400); exit;   // private/reserved blocked
}
$ch = curl_init($_GET['url']);
curl_setopt($ch, CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION, false);
echo curl_exec($ch);
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index), CWE\-20, CWE\-610, OWASP A10:2021 SSRF.
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/918.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
