.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-35 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-35 \- Path Traversal: '.../...//'
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product uses external input to construct a pathname that should be within a restricted directory, but it does not properly neutralize '.../...//' (doubled triple dot slash) sequences that can resolve to a location that is outside of that directory. This allows attackers to traverse the file system to access files or directories that are outside of the restricted directory. The '.../...//' manipulation is useful for bypassing some path traversal protection schemes. If ../ is filtered in a sequential fashion, as done by some regular expression engines, then .../...// can collapse into the ../ unsafe value (CWE\-182). Removing the first ../ yields ....//; the second removal yields ../. Depending on the algorithm, the product could be susceptible to CWE\-34 but not CWE\-35, or vice versa.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2025\-8088.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/35.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
