.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-647 7 "2026-06-22" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-647 \- Use of Non\-Canonical URL Paths for Authorization Decisions
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product defines policy namespaces and makes authorization decisions based on the assumption that a URL is canonical. This can allow a non\-canonical URL to bypass the authorization. If an application defines policy namespaces and makes authorization decisions based on the URL, but it does not require or convert to a canonical URL before making the authorization decision, then it opens the application to attack. For example, if the application only wants to allow access to http://www.example.com/mypage, then the attacker might be able to bypass this restriction using equivalent URLs such as: http://WWW.EXAMPLE.COM/mypage http://www.example.com/%6Dypage (alternate encoding) http://192.168.1.1/mypage (IP address) http://www.example.com/mypage/ (trailing /) http://www.example.com:80/mypage Therefore it is important to specify access control policy that is based on the path information in some canonical form with all alternate encodings rejected (which can be accomplished by a default deny rule).
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-22): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2022\-43939.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/647.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-22 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-22.
