.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-134 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-134 \- Use of Externally\-Controlled Format String
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product uses a function that accepts a format string as an argument, but the format string originates from an external source. When an attacker can modify an externally\-controlled format string, this can lead to buffer overflows, denial of service, or data representation problems. It should be noted that in some circumstances, such as internationalization, the set of format strings is externally controlled by design. If the source of these format strings is trusted (e.g. only contained in library files that are only modifiable by the system administrator), then the external control might not itself pose a vulnerability.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB3\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2019\-1579, CVE\-2020\-3118, CVE\-2024\-23113.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (C).
.SS C
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
printf(user_input);          /* format-string injection */
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
printf("%s", user_input);
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/134.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
