.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-552 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-552 \- Files or Directories Accessible to External Parties
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product makes files or directories accessible to unauthorized actors, even though they should not be. Web servers, FTP servers, and similar servers may store a set of files underneath a root directory that is accessible to the server's users. Applications may store sensitive files underneath this root without also using access control to limit which users may request those files, if any. Alternately, an application might package multiple files or directories into an archive file (e.g., ZIP or tar), but the application might not exclude sensitive files that are underneath those directories. In cloud technologies and containers, this weakness might present itself in the form of misconfigured storage accounts that can be read or written by a public or anonymous user.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB3\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2017\-16651, CVE\-2020\-17519, CVE\-2025\-11371.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/552.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
