.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-476 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-476 \- NULL Pointer Dereference
.SH RANK
2025 CWE Top 25 rank: \fB#13\fR (2024 rank: 21).
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: Memory Safety / Reliability.
.SH DESCRIPTION
A pointer expected to be valid is NULL when dereferenced, usually crashing the program (denial of service). Typically from an unchecked return value or unhandled error path. Shown in C/C++; the managed analog is an unchecked null object reference.
.SH MITIGATION
Check the result of anything that can return NULL before dereferencing, and define the failure path. Static analysers catch many; in modern C++/Rust use optional types to make absence explicit.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-16): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2026\-21525.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (C, C++).
.SS C
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
struct cfg *c = find_config(key);   /* may return NULL */
printf("%d\\n", c->timeout);          /* crash if c == NULL */
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
struct cfg *c = find_config(key);
if (c == NULL) { log_warn("missing %s", key); return; }
printf("%d\\n", c->timeout);
.EE
.RE
.SS C++
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
Cfg *c = find_config(key);   // may return nullptr
std::cout << c->timeout;      // crash if null
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
if (std::optional<Cfg> c = find_config(key))   // explicit presence check
    std::cout << c->timeout;
else
    log_warn("missing config");
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index), CWE\-690, CWE\-252.
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/476.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
