.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-203 7 "2026-06-15" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-203 \- Observable Discrepancy
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product behaves differently or sends different responses under different circumstances in a way that is observable to an unauthorized actor, which exposes security\-relevant information about the state of the product, such as whether a particular operation was successful or not. Discrepancies can take many forms, and variations may be detectable in timing, control flow, communications such as replies or requests, or general behavior. These discrepancies can reveal information about the product's operation or internal state to an unauthorized actor. In some cases, discrepancies can be used by attackers to form a side channel.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-15): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2024\-39891.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/203.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-15 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-15.
