.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-353 7 "2025-12-11" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-353 \- Missing Support for Integrity Check
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product uses a transmission protocol that does not include a mechanism for verifying the integrity of the data during transmission, such as a checksum. If integrity check values or checksums are omitted from a protocol, there is no way of determining if data has been corrupted in transmission. The lack of checksum functionality in a protocol removes the first application\-level check of data that can be used. The end\-to\-end philosophy of checks states that integrity checks should be performed at the lowest level that they can be completely implemented. Excluding further sanity checks and input validation performed by applications, the protocol's checksum is the most important level of checksum, since it can be performed more completely than at any previous level and takes into account entire messages, as opposed to single packets.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-16): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2022\-40139.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/353.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
