.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-324 7 "2026-06-17" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-324 \- Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product uses a cryptographic key or password past its expiration date, which diminishes its safety significantly by increasing the timing window for cracking attacks against that key. While the expiration of keys does not necessarily ensure that they are compromised, it is a significant concern that keys which remain in use for prolonged periods of time have a decreasing probability of integrity. For this reason, it is important to replace keys within a period of time proportional to their strength.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-17): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2025\-47827.
.SH EXAMPLES
No per\-language examples yet for this weakness. See the authoritative MITRE definition below, or contribute a vulnerable\->fixed pair to \fBcwe_data.py\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/324.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-17 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-17.
