.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-121 7 "2026-06-17" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-121 \- Stack\-based Buffer Overflow
.SH RANK
2025 CWE Top 25 rank: \fB#14\fR (2024 rank: NEW).
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: Memory Safety.
.SH DESCRIPTION
An overflow of a buffer on the call stack. Because local buffers sit near saved registers and the return address, an overflow can redirect execution \- historically the most exploited overflow. A C/C++ class.
.SH MITIGATION
Never use unbounded input functions (gets). Read into a sized buffer, enable stack canaries, ASLR and non\-executable stacks, and fuzz parsers. In C++ use std::string / std::getline.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-17): \fB10\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2020\-5735, CVE\-2021\-20038, CVE\-2022\-20700, CVE\-2022\-20701, CVE\-2022\-20708, CVE\-2025\-0282, CVE\-2025\-20352, CVE\-2025\-22457, CVE\-2025\-42599, CVE\-2025\-53521.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (C, C++).
.SS C
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
char line[64];
gets(line);          /* unbounded read straight onto the stack */
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
char line[64];
if (fgets(line, sizeof line, stdin))   /* bounded by sizeof line */
    process(line);
.EE
.RE
.SS C++
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
char line[64];
std::cin >> line;    // operator>> into char[] can overflow the stack buffer
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
std::string line;
std::getline(std::cin, line);   // grows to fit the input
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index), CWE\-120, CWE\-122, CWE\-787.
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/121.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-17 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-17.
