.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-798 7 "2026-06-22" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-798 \- Use of Hard\-coded Credentials
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product contains hard\-coded credentials, such as a password or cryptographic key, which it uses for its own inbound authentication, outbound communication to external components, or encryption of internal data. Hard\-coded credentials typically create a significant hole that allows an attacker to bypass the authentication that has been configured by the product administrator. This hole might be difficult for the system administrator to detect. Even if detected, it can be difficult to fix, so the administrator may be forced into disabling the product entirely. There are two main variations: Inbound: the product contains an authentication mechanism that checks the input credentials against a hard\-coded set of credentials. Outbound: the product connects to another system or component, and it contains hard\-coded credentials for connecting to that component. In the Inbound variant, a default administration account is created, and a simple password is hard\-coded into the product and associated with that account. This hard\-coded password is the same for each installation of the product, and it usually cannot be changed or disabled by system administrators without manually modifying the program, or otherwise patching the product. If the password is ever discovered or published (a common occurrence on the Internet), then anybody with knowledge of this password can access the product. Finally, since all installations of the product will have the same password, even across different organizations, this enables massive attacks such as worms to take place. The Outbound variant applies to front\-end systems that authenticate with a back\-end service. The back\-end service may require a fixed password which can be easily discovered. The programmer may simply hard\-code those back\-end credentials into the front\-end product. Any user of that program may be able to extract the password. Client\-side systems with hard\-coded passwords pose even more of a threat, since the extraction of a password from a binary is usually very simple.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-22): \fB8\fR exploited CVEs mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2019\-6693, CVE\-2020\-8657, CVE\-2021\-44207, CVE\-2022\-26138, CVE\-2024\-3272, CVE\-2024\-28987, CVE\-2025\-14611, CVE\-2026\-22769.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Python).
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
API_KEY = "sk_live_51H8abc..."      # secret committed in source
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
import os
API_KEY = os.environ["API_KEY"]     # from environment / secret manager
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/798.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-22 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-22.
