.\" Educational secure-coding reference. Generated, not hand-edited.
.TH CWE-330 7 "2026-06-17" "CWE Top 25 (2025)" "Software Weakness Reference"
.SH NAME
CWE\-330 \- Use of Insufficiently Random Values
.SH RANK
KEV\-referenced weakness. Not part of the 2025 CWE Top 25; documented here because it appears in the CISA KEV catalog.
.SH CLASSIFICATION
Class: KEV\-referenced weakness.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The product uses insufficiently random numbers or values in a security context that depends on unpredictable numbers. When product generates predictable values in a context requiring unpredictability, it may be possible for an attacker to guess the next value that will be generated, and use this guess to impersonate another user or access sensitive information.
.SH KNOWN EXPLOITED VULNERABILITIES
CISA KEV catalog (as of 2026-06-17): \fB1\fR exploited CVE mapped to this weakness.
.PP
CVE\-2020\-1472.
.SH EXAMPLES
One vulnerable\->fixed pair per ecosystem (Python).
.SS Python
\fIVulnerable:\fR
.RS
.EX
import random
token = "%030x" % random.randrange(16**30)   # predictable PRNG
.EE
.RE
\fIFixed:\fR
.RS
.EX
import secrets
token = secrets.token_hex(16)                # CSPRNG
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcwe\fR(7) (index).
.PP
Authoritative definition: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/330.html
.SH NOTES
Defensive reference material. Each vulnerable snippet shows a pattern to recognize and avoid; the fixed snippet shows the recommended approach.
.PP
Generated 2026\-06\-17 from CWE Top 25 (2025). CISA KEV data as of 2026\-06\-17.
